---
date: 2015-02-28T22:31:13-05:00
title: "2015 Course Director: Simon Lole"
author: jjneely
layout: post
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
{{% figure src="/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Simon-Lole-head.jpg" title="Simon Lole" class="pull-left" %}}

Simon Lole has spent a lifetime in music, starting as a chorister at St Paul’s
Cathedral in London. He received his musical training at the Guildhall School
of Music and King’s College, London University. He spent many years as a
professional church musician, culminating in positions as Director of Music at
Sheffield and Salisbury Cathedrals and teaching at Jesus College, Cambridge.

Since 2005, he has worked as a freelance musician…musical director, composer,
arranger, conductor and organist, as well as record producer and workshop
leader.

He is increasingly in demand by the major record companies as an arranger,
particularly in the field of classical-crossover. He has been musical director
and Arranger for All Angels and Laura Wright since they started; worked as
arranger, musical director and pianist for Hayley Westenra, with whom he has
toured Japan; he has toured with Will Martin, and has done a lot of arranging
for Gary Barlow’s record company with the singer, Camilla Kerslake. Simon is
now Musical Director for both Aled Jones and the chorister group, Celeste, and
regularly arranges music for both of them.

He has worked regularly with the City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra,
conducting sessions for Universal Records, as well as with many distinguished
London session musicians.￼

As a choral specialist and workshop leader, Simon has travelled the world and
is greatly in demand.

As a choral director Simon also works regularly for the BBC. He is one of the
main Musical Directors for Radio 4’s “The Daily Service”, vocal coach and
accompanist for Radio 2’s “Young Chorister of the Year”, arranger on many TV
and Radio programmes and also a regular contributor and presenter on such Radio
3 shows as “The Early Music Show” and “The Choir”.  Simon Lole has also worked
extensively as a classical record producer, recording choirs including York
Minster, Blackburn Cathedral and Jesus College, Cambridge. Simon is also a
judge and Choral advisor to BBC TV’s “Songs of Praise School Choir of the Year
Competition”, as well as being one of the programme’s conductors and musical
advisors.
