---
title: '2017 Music Director: Scott Dettra'
author: jjneely
layout: post
date: 2016-11-01
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The RSCMA Carolina Course is pleased to welcome Mr. Scott Dettra as Music
Director for the 2017 summer training course!

{{% figure src="/images/people/scott-dettra.jpg" alt="Mr. Scott Dettra" %}}

Scott Dettra has been acclaimed as one of the leading American concert
organists of his generation. He combines an active performance schedule with
his post as Director of Music and Organist at the Church of the Incarnation in
Dallas, where he leads a vibrant music program in the country's fifth largest
Episcopal parish. Prior to his appointment in Dallas, he was for five years
Organist and Associate Director of Music at Washington National Cathedral,
where he served as principal organist and assisted with the direction of the
Cathedral choirs. Mr. Dettra's playing is known for its poetry, rhythmic
intensity, and musical elegance.

He has performed at national conventions of the American Guild of Organists
(2002, 2010, 2014), the Association of Anglican Musicians (1996, 2005, 2012),
and the Association of Lutheran Church Musicians. Festival appearances include
the Lincoln Center Festival, the Carmel Bach Festival, the Arizona Bach
Festival, the Bermuda Festival of the Performing Arts, and the Piccolo Spoleto
Festival. In addition to his concert appearances, his performances have been
broadcast on American Public Mediaâ€™s Pipedreams and Performance Today, the
BBC's Choral Evensong, and The New York Philharmonic This Week.  A native of
Wilmington, Delaware, Mr. Dettra holds two degrees from Westminster Choir
College, where he was a student of Joan Lippincott, and has also studied jazz
piano at Manhattan School of Music.
