---
title: '2017 Organist: Christopher Jacobson'
author: jjneely
layout: post
date: 2017-11-01
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The RSCMA Carolina Course is pleased to welcome Christopher Jacobson as organist for the
2017 summer training course!

{{% figure src="/images/people/kit-jacobson.jpg" alt="Mr. Christopher Jacobson" %}}

Christopher Jacobson, FRCO, is Organist of Duke Chapel at Duke University. He
was previously the Associate Organist and Choirmaster at Trinity Episcopal
Cathedral in Columbia, South Carolina where he assisted in directing and
training the cathedral choirs and played for weekly Eucharist and Evensong
liturgies. Mr. Jacobson also served on the faculty as instructor of organ at
the University of South Carolina's School of Music. Prior to his appointment at
Trinity Cathedral he was Assistant Organist and Assistant Director of Music at
Washington National Cathedral. As a soloist Mr. Jacobson has presented organ
recitals across North America, Europe, and Australia. He has won prizes in
numerous organ competitions including the National Young Artist Competition
(NYACOP), the Miami International Organ Competition, and first prize in the
American Guild of Organists/Quimby Region VI Competition for Young Organists
and the John R. Rodland Competition in church music. As an accompanist he has
accompanied choirs in residencies and tours to Saint Thomas Church, New York
City, Wells Cathedral, Canterbury Cathedral, Durham Cathedral in England, the
American Cathedral in Paris, and the Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi in
Italy. He has also served as accompanist for many RSCM summer courses across
the country. An active continuo artist Mr. Jacobson appears regularly with the
early music ensemble, Three Notch'd Road and the North Carolina Baroque
Orchestra. Mr. Jacobson holds the Master of Music degree in Organ Performance
and the Sacred Music Diploma from the Eastman School of Music as well as the
Associate diploma from the American Guild of Organists. At Eastman he studied
organ with David Higgs, and improvisation and continuo with William Porter. Mr.
Jacobson received the Bachelor of Music degree with distinction in Organ
Performance from St. Olaf College where he studied with John Ferguson and
Catherine Rodland. He is a graduate of Woodberry Forest where he began his
organ study with French organist Yvaine Duisit, and the American Boychoir
School as a treble chorister under James Litton.
