---
title: '2021 Course Director: Daniel Cook'
author: jjneely
draft: true
layout: post
date: 2020-08-14
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The RSCM Carolina Course is pleased to welcome Mr. Daniel Cook as the
Music Director for the 2021 course!

{{% figure src="/images/people/daniel-cook.jpg" alt="Daniel Cook" %}}

Daniel Cook is Master of the Choristers and Organist of Durham Cathedral and is
recognized internationally as a liturgical and concert organist of the highest
order. In addition he is Artistic Director of Mousai, Musical Director of
Durham University Choral Society, and maintains a busy schedule of recitals,
concerts and recordings, both as performer and producer, as well as being in
demand as a conductor, teacher and singer.

Prior to this Daniel spent four years as Sub-Organist of Westminster Abbey
where he was the principal organist to the Abbey Choir and Assistant Director
of Music to James O'Donnell. He accompanied the Abbey Choir for all major
services, performed with them in concerts and on tours in Europe and the USA,
as well as appearing in their famous series of recordings for Hyperion Records.
He also performed with the Abbey Choir in several concerts in London, notably
in Buckingham Palace and at the Royal Albert Hall, and was the organist for all
of the broadcast services and concerts between 2013 and 2017.

Before moving to the Abbey, Daniel was Organist and Master of the Choristers of
St Davids Cathedral and Artistic Director of the St Davids Cathedral Festival,
where he was responsible for the maintenance and development of the cathedral's
musical ministry. Under his direction the Cathedral Choir made several
broadcasts and recordings for BBC Radio and Television, toured in Italy and
performed with the BBC singers in the City of London Festival. Before moving to
St Davids, Daniel spent six years as Assistant Director of Music of Salisbury
Cathedral where he was the principal organist. He has worked widely as a choral
conductor and has been Music Director of the Dyfed Choir, the Farrant Singers,
St Davids Cathedral Festival Chorus and the Grange Choral Society and
Orchestra, with whom he directed many major choral works including Bach:
Christmas Oratorio, Dyson: Canterbury Pilgrims, Elgar: The Dream of Gerontius,
Handel: Messiah and Verdi: Requiem.

Daniel received his early musical education at Durham Cathedral with Keith
Wright. Following a year as Organ Scholar at Worcester Cathedral, he moved to
London to take up a place at the Royal Academy of Music where he studied with
Nicolas Kynaston, James O'Donnell and Patrick Russill and participated in
master classes with many of the world's leading organists including
Marie-Claire Alain, Lionel Rogg and Jon Laukvik. While at the Academy, he
worked as Organ Scholar at Southwark Cathedral and Westminster Abbey before
graduating with first-class honours in July, 2003. He was subsequently
Assistant Organist of Westminster Abbey from 2003 until 2005.

Daniel has twice been a finalist in the St Albans International Organ
Competition. As a recitalist, he has played across the UK, Europe and Australia
with performances in most of the cathedrals in Britain, the Royal Albert Hall,
the Royal Festival Hall, and in the Grand Organ Festival at Westminster
Cathedral. Increasingly in demand as an ensemble performer, recent engagements
have included concerts with the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment in the
City of London Festival, BBC National Orchestra of Wales in the St Davids
Cathedral Festival, Onyx Brass in The Hythe Festival and The London Mozart
Players in JAM on the Marsh. His work as an accompanist has taken him all over
the world and he regularly works with many of the distinguished vocal ensembles
and choral groups in the UK such as the BBC Singers, both as a conductor and
organist. He has made several solo organ recordings for Priory Records and is
one of their most recorded organists. Other projects have included a
performance of the complete organ works of Olivier Messiaen in six recitals to
celebrate the centenary of the composerâ€™s birth, and CD recordings of the
complete organ music of Charles Stanford, Herbert Brewer, Herbert Sumsion,
George Dyson, Walter Alcock and William Harris. A solo DVD from Westminster
Abbey was released in 2018.

In recent years Daniel has developed a strong commitment to new music,
particularly through his work as conductor, organist and panel member for the
John Armitage Memorial Trust (JAM). He regularly collaborates with leading
contemporary composers and has participated in first performances of works by
Judith Bingham, Neil Cox, Adam Gorb, Robin Holloway, Gabriel Jackson, Matthew
Martin, Paul Mealor, Philip Moore, Tarik O'Regan, Paul Patterson, Julian
Philips, Giles Swayne, Judith Weir, James Whitbourn and Jeremy Woodside. In
2009 he was soloist for a collaborative CD release of contemporary music
jointly promoted by JAM and Choir and Organ magazine.

In 2013 Daniel was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy of Music (ARAM),
an award offered to past students of the Academy who have distinguished
themselves in the music profession and made a significant contribution to it in
their particular field.
