---
title: '2020 Course Organist: Stephen Gourley'
author: jjneely
layout: post
date: 2019-12-01
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The RSCM Carolina Course is pleased to welcome Mr. Stephen Gourley as the
Course Organist for the 2020 course!

{{% figure src="/images/people/stephen-gourley.jpg" alt="Stephen Gourley" %}}

Stephen Gourley holds the Master of Music and Bachelor of Music degrees from
the University of North Texas and the North Carolina School of the Arts
respectively. He has studied organ and harpsichord with Jesse Eschbach, Jack
Mitchener, Erica Johnson, Christoph Hammer; church music with Mark Scott, and
piano with Dianne Finan. During his undergraduate studies, he frequently
performed recitals on the historic 1800 David Tannenburg organ, housed at the
Old Salem Visitor's Center in Winston-Salem. While at North Texas, Stephen was
awarded a teaching assistantship in the choral department and acted as
accompanist for the chamber and concert choirs. In 2009, Stephen served as
continuo player for the North American premiere of Giovanni Felice Sances’
Missa Sancta Maria Magdalena with the UNT Baroque Orchestra and Collegium
Singers. He was also named the Outstanding Graduate Student in Organ for the
2010-2011 academic year. 

Since March of 2014, Stephen has served as Director of Music at The Village
Chapel, an interdenominational community of faith in Pinehurst, NC. He serves
as organist for all worship services (totaling 180 services yearly), conducts
and accompanies the Chapel Choir, conducts the Handchime Choir, and oversees
the children’s music program. In 2014, Stephen founded The Village Chapel Music
Series, now in its sixth season. 

Stephen has served as both Accompanist and President of the Board of Directors
for the Moore County Choral Society. He is also a member of the Royal School of
Church Music in America and serves as a staff member for its Carolina Course,
held in Raleigh. Stephen has also served for two years as a counselor with Camp
SAY, a summer camp for young people who stutter. He has served churches in the
Episcopal, Presbyterian, Methodist, and Lutheran traditions in North Carolina
and Texas. 

Stephen has performed in organ masterclasses with Olivier Latry, Todd Wilson,
Carole Terry, and Jonathan Biggers, and worked with esteemed conductors such as
Richard Sparks, Greg Hobbs, Daniel Bara, and James Albritten. 

Stephen is equally at home as a solo artist, collaborator, accompanist, and
conductor, with musical interests ranging from church music to musical theatre.
His choral compositions are published by Renforth Music. 
