---
title: '2025 Music Director Update: Joseph Causby'
author: jjneely
layout: post
date: 2025-05-11
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
We're excited to welcome everyone to the RSCMA Carolina Summer Choral
Residency in July. Regrettably, due to circumstances beyond our control, we've
have had to postpone having Tansy Castledine with us as our Music Director
this year. We very much look forward to having her at the Course next summer
in 2026. For this year's Residency, Dr. Joseph Causby from the Chapel of the
Cross in Chapel Hill, NC has very graciously agreed to step in and serve as
our substitute Music Director. Joe is no stranger to RSCM America, and will be
a familiar and friendly face for many of us. Welcome, Joe! 

<!--more-->

{{% figure src="/images/people/joe-causby.jpeg" alt="Dr. Joseph Causby" %}}

Joseph Causby serves as Director of Music and Organist at the Chapel of the
Cross in Chapel Hill, NC, and is the immediate Past President of the Royal
School of Church Music in America. Prior to his appointment in Chapel Hill,
Joseph served Episcopal parishes in Texas, building active intergenerational
programs which encouraged excellence through musical and spiritual formation.
As a conductor, his choirs have taken part in four English Cathedral
residencies; performed major works with orchestra; and recorded and
broadcasted live on NPR and PBS. Most recently, the choir of the Chapel of the
Cross served a weeklong residency at Ely Cathedral (Cambridgeshire) and The
Temple Church in London.

A passionate collaborator, Joseph has formed relationships with universities
and international organizations including Britten Pears Arts in Aldeburgh, the
Royal Academy of Music, Cambridge University, Duke University, the University
of North Carolina, and the Ackland Museum. As a frequent guest artist at Duke
University and its Chapel (home of RSCM America), Joseph plays the organ and
harpsichord for special services and Evensongs, and most recently took part in
a complete performance of Bachâ€™s Musical Offering, BWV 1079 with members of
the Duke University music faculty.

As an organ recitalist, Joseph has given concerts in the United States,
Canada, England, and France. In 2019, he was a featured speaker for the 100th
Anniversary of the founding of the Choir School of St. Thomas Church, Fifth
Avenue, New York City. His dissertation, *Who dares stand idle? Thomas Tertius
Noble, a life in church music, 1867-1953* was completed in 2015.

A native of Morganton, North Carolina, Joseph holds a BMus from Appalachian
State University, an MMus from Rice University, and a PhD from the University
of Durham (UK), where he also served as the first American organ scholar of
Durham Cathedral. In 2023, Joseph was made a Fellow of the Royal School of
Church Music for his services to the Anglican Communion.
