---
title: '2025 Chaplain: Reverend Andrew Kryzak'
author: jjneely
layout: post
date: 2024-12-28
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The RSCMA Carolina Summer Choral Residency is pleased to welcome 
Reverend Andrew Kryzak as this year's Chaplain!

{{% figure src="/images/people/andrew-kryzak.jpeg" alt="Reverend Andrew Kryzak" %}}

The Rev. Andrew A. Kryzak is the rector of St. John’s Episcopal Church in
Stamford, Connecticut. His ordained ministry has taken place entirely in
parishes with a significant musical life, and he has consistently advocated
for the central place of the Anglican choral tradition in the Episcopal
Church.

Prior to his arrival in Stamford, Andrew served as associate rector of Christ
Church, Georgetown, in Washington, D.C., where he supported Christ Church’s
all-professional choir and helped expand its ministry. He served his curacy at
Christ Church in Greenwich, Connecticut, where he worked closely with the
parish’s significant RSCM choral program, serving as chaplain to its choirs of
men, boys, and girls.

A specialist in mainline church revitalization, he has worked with Episcopal
congregations and dioceses to advance church growth and was awarded a Pastoral
Study Project grant by the Louisville Institute for his independent research
in congregational development.

Andrew trained for the ministry at Yale Divinity School, earning the Master of
Divinity and a diploma in Anglican studies from Berkeley Divinity School. He
holds an STM from the General Theological Seminary, where for his thesis he
was awarded the Alumni Prize in Ecclesiastical History. Raised in the
Episcopal Church, he is in the eleventh generation of his family in the New
World to worship according to the Book of Common Prayer. A native New Yorker,
he grew up in northern Dutchess County and was educated at Hotchkiss, Duke,
and Columbia. Prior to divinity school, while playing the organ every Sunday,
he worked for the New-York Historical Society and for the law firm of Davis,
Polk & Wardwell. 

His academic and personal interests include Western history; sacred music;
Classical and Gothic architecture; detective fiction; railroads; and the city
of New York. He is an avid and longtime pianist, organist, and tennis player
and enjoys reading, writing, and long walks. He and his wife, Hannah, have a
daughter, Eleanor, and live in Stamford.
