---
title: "2015"
date: 2015-02-15T21:09:26-05:00
layout: current
menu:
  main:
    parent: Past Courses
aliases:
  - /course-information/registration-and-forms/
  - /course-information/repertoire/
staff:
  list:
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Simon-Lole-head.jpg
    name: Simon Lole
    position: Music Director
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Zach-Hemeway-head.jpg
    name: Zachary Hemenway
    position: Organist
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/kevin-headshot1.jpg
    name: Kevin Kerstetter
    position: Course Co-Manager
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/BrownM74-head.jpg
    name: Matthew Brown
    position: Course Co-Manager
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/kyle-ritter-head.jpg
    name: Kyle Ritter
    position: Adult Housemaster
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/marilyn-neely-headshot.jpg
    name: Marilyn Neely
    position: Registrar
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/pam_hair-41.png
    name: Pam Hair
    position: Head Proctor
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/nancy-allison-scaled.jpg
    name: The Reverend Nancy Allison
    position: Chaplain
  - img: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/ely-colar-headshot.jpg
    name: Elizabeth Neely
    position: Residential Life Coordinator
  - img: /images/people/jackneely.png
    name: Jack Neely
    position: Webmaster
---

The 2015 RSCM Carolina Course is now open for applications for girls and
adults!  This year’s course will be held July 13 – 19 at Saint Mary’s School in
Raleigh, NC.  This year marks the 20th annual RSCM Carolina Course!  Our music
director will be Simon Lole who originally directed this course 20 years ago.
Course organist will be Zachary Hemenway.

Please download the appropriate forms below and send them, with payment, to the
[course registrar][7]

# Registration Information

## Choristers (Girls Ages 10 – 18)

  * Download the [Chorister Packet 2015 (PDF)][2].
  * A $100 non-refundable deposit is due with your registration forms.  This
    deposit guarantees your place.
  * Total fee is $585 for registrations received by April 1, 2015.
  * Total fee is $610 for registrations received after April 1, 2015.
  * Balance is due June 1, 2015.
  * Please remember that course fees do *not* include [music][3].
  * Recordings of the closing services are not included in the course fees.

## Adults

  * Download the [Adult Packet 2015 (PDF)][4].
  * [Reference Forms (PDF)][5] are valid for 3 years and must be current and on
    file with your registration information.
  * The [Self Declaration (PDF)][6] forms are required each year.  Include them
    with your registration information.
  * A $100 non-refundable deposit is due with your registration forms. This
    deposit guarantees your place.
  * Total fee is $625 for registrations received by April 1, 2015.
  * Total fee is $650 for registrations received after April 1, 2015.
  * Total fee for Adult Day Participants is $425.  This option is only
    available for adult participants and includes all meals. Lodging is not
    included.
  * Please remember that course fees do *not* include [music][3]
  * Recordings of the closing services are not included in the course fees
  * Adults that are current members of the Royal School of Church Music in
    America at the Individual level or the Friend level may receive a $25 discount.

## Staff

  * Staff registration materials will be sent to the staff.
  * All Course Staff *must* complete the Staff Registration Packet.

Any questions may be sent to the course registrar Marilyn Neely.  Contact
information can be found on the [Contact Page][7].

# Music

Remember that you are responsible for purchasing, obtaining, and practicing
your music before you arrive at the course.

**Eucharist**

  * Mass Setting: *Missa Brevis* in F, K192 (Mozart)
  * Offertory Anthem: *There is a Land of Pure Delight* (Grayston Ives)
  * Communion Motet: *Tantum Ergo* (de Severac)

**Evensong**

  * Introit: *Never weather beaten sail* (Richard Shephard)
  * Responses: John Sanders
  * Canticles: Wood in D
  * Anthem: *A Festival Commission* (Simon Lole)

## Ordering

Music for the 2015 Carolina Course is now available exclusively through Cliff
Hill Music.  Packets are $4.56 each and include only music not currently in
public domain.  To order, please contact Cliff Hill directly at 1-800-819-8772
or e-mail at cliff@cliffhillmusic.com

PDFs are available below of the public domain music:

  * [Mozart, Missa Brevis in F major, K. 192][8] (PDF)
  * [Severac, Tantum Ergo][9] (PDF)
  * [Wood, Magnificat in D][10] (PDF)
  * [Wood, Nunc dimittis in D][11] (PDF)

# Course Staff

{{% staff %}}

 [1]: mailto://registrar@carolinarscm.org
 [2]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Chorister-Packet-2015.pdf
 [4]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Adult-Packet-2015.pdf
 [5]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/reference-forms.pdf 
 [6]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Self-Declaration.pdf
 [7]: /contact
 [8]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Mozart-Missa-Brevis-in-F-major-K.-192.pdf
 [9]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Severac-Tantum-Ergo.pdf
 [10]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Wood-Magnificat-in-D.pdf
 [11]: /wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Wood-Nunc-dimittis-in-D.pdf


